- [Instructor] Okay, let's talk a bit about using MongoDB
and Spring Reactive Data.
MongoDB is a NoSQL document-oriented database.
It stores data in the BSON,
or binary JSON format.
A BSON document is just like a JSON document,
but encoded to binary when stored on disc.
There is no explicit schema
so fields and data structure can change over time
and between documents.
The document model maps very closely to your models
in your own code.
MongoDB is distributed by design.
It offers high availability,
horizontal scaling,
and geographic distribution.
Self-healing MongoDB replica sets enable high availability.
A replica set consists of multiple database replicas.
Right operations are applied to the primary,
then secondaries replicate all data changes
from the operation's log.
If the primary suffers the failure,
one of the secondary members
is automatically elected to primary.
This automatic fail over hot swap
provides high availability in the face of any error.
Sharding automatically partitions
and distributes data across multiple physical instances.
Sharding will seamlessly scale the database
without adding any complexity to the application itself.
Notes can be added or removed from the cluster,
and MongoDB will automatically rebalance that data.
Data is distributed based on hashing the primary key value.
This is how MongoDB facilitates
automatic horizontal scaling.
We will use a reactive template
to perform database operations.
ReactiveMongoOperations is a interface
that our template will implement.
It specifies a basic set of operations to be executed
in a reactive manner.
It contains operations such as save, findById, and remove.
Here is an example definition
of a Reactive Mongo Template Bean.
We define a dependency that can be injected
using the Bean annotation.
We pass in a Mongo Client bean,
and then we instantiate a Reactive Mongo Template instance
passing the Mongo Client and the database name.